---
title: "Shellfish Detection based on Fusion Attention Mechanism in End-to-End Network"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2019-PRCV
excerpt: 'Object detection has many difficulties and challenges in the agricultural field, mainly due to the lack of data and the complexity of the agricultural environment. Therefore, we built a shellfish dataset containing 3772 images in 7 categories, all of which were manually labeled and verified.'
date: 2019-10-31
venue: 'PRCV2019'
[//]: # (paperurl: '')
[//]: # (citation: 'Guangyao Li, Zhenbo Li, et al. Shellfish Detection based on Fusion Attention Mechanism in End-to-End Network. <i>Chinese Conference on Pattern Recognition and Computer Vision (PRCV2019)</i>. (Accepted).')
---

**Abstract:**
Object detection has many difficulties and challenges in the agricultural field, mainly due to the lack of data and the complexity of the agricultural environment. Therefore, we built a shellfish dataset containing 3772 images in 7 categories, all of which were manually labeled and verified. In addition, based on the SSD model framework, we used the lightweight MobileNet-v2 classification network to replace the original VGG16 network, and introduced a residual attention mechanism between the classification network and the prediction convolution layer. This could not only lead to a better capture the local features of the images, but also meet the needs of real-time and mobile use. The experimental results show that the performance of our model on the shellfish dataset is better than the current mainstream target detection models. And the verification results achieved an accuracy of 95.38% and a detection speed of 33ms per picture, indicating that the validity of the model we proposed.

**Download from:**  [GitHub](http://ayameyao.github.io/files/2019PRCV_Shellfish_Detection_Based_on_Fusion_Attention_Mechanism_in_End-to-End_Network.pdf) or [SpringerLink](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-31726-3_44)

**Recommended citation:** Guangyao Li, Zhenbo Li, et al. Shellfish Detection based on Fusion Attention Mechanism in End-to-End Network. <i>In: Lin Z. et al. (eds) Pattern Recognition and Computer Vision. PRCV2019</i>. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol 11859. Springer, Cham.
